Ogbono soup is a popular Nigerian delicacy enjoyed across the country. it's a viscous soup prepared with fish and proteins and it's also served with "Swallow". it's made from the seeds of the ogbono fruit, typically dried in the sun, ground, and sold in powdered form or whole. its highly mucilaginous component thickens in soups is what most people enjoy. 

ingredients:

Ogbono seed, ogiri okpei, stockfish head, ponmo, sharki, beef, fresh pepper or 2 tbsp. dry pepper, snails, crayfish, salt, seasoning cubes, onion, palm oil, ugu (pumpkin leaves)


1 cup ogbono seed
1 small ogiri okpei
1 medium sized stockfish head
400g ponmo - cowhide
500g sharki - Tripe
1kg Beef
2 medium-sized fresh pepper or 2 tbsp. dry pepper
6 small snails
1/2 cup cray fish
salt - to taste
3 Seasoning cubes
1 small onion
1 cup palm oil
1 small bunch ugu ( pumpkin leaves)
Instructions
Preparation::

Place the Ogbono and ogiri in the dry mill of your blender and grind into a smooth powder. Set this aside. Soak the stockfish in hot water and shred - Set this aside. Chop the ugu - Set this aside

Directions:::

In a medium-sized pot, place the meats: sharki, ponmo, beef
snails in the pot. Add your chopped onion, crushed seasoning, salt to taste. Cover the pot and leave the meats to cook in its juices for 5-10 minutes. This ensures the seasoning gets into the meat. Add water and cook for 30minutes. Remove the beef and snail so they don't get overcooked. Add the stockfish into the pot and cook alongside the sharki and ponmo for extra 20 minutes. Heat up palm oil in an empty pot for 30 secs and Add pepper. Stir fry for 2 minutes.

Turn down the heat from the burner and add the ogbono. Stir on very low heat for 30 secs then add the meat stock. Mix well. Add water into the pot. If you want it to be very thick, add little water. if you don't want the soup to be too thick, add water as desired. Here's the tricky part. If you're sure you're using the real ogbono, you can cover your pot. If you're using Ugiri (An ogbono substitute), DON'T COVER YOUR POT else the soup will lose its viscosity. Once the ogbono thickens, Add the crayfish and cooked proteins into the pot. Mix to combine, then add your chopped vegetables. Leave to simmer for 2 minutes on low heat then turn off your burner and your ogbono is ready. Serve with your favorite swallow. Enjoy!



Egusi...

This Egusi soup recipe is insanely delicious and easy to make. Before you say I write this about all my recipes, I just want to confirm once again that this is true. I can tell you, this soup is the truth. It is simple and quick to make.


 egusi soup is popular in Nigeria and it is best eaten with morsels or  “swallow” as it’s popularly called. Egusi soup and pounded are top of the list. Perfect food marriage the universe has ever brought together.


 
INGREDIENTS

Ground melon

smoked turkey

Smoked Mackerel

salt

Beef stock cubes

Nigerian pepper mix

Dried Prawns

Iru woro or pete (locust beans): substitute with ogiri or omit if you do not have it

Palm oil

Spinach: any type of spinach can be used but I used baby spinach



HOW TO COOK EGUSI SOUP IN SIMPLE STEPS
Add ground melon to a bowl, add about a cup of water and mix to form a paste then set aside. Wash and chop the spinach, drain in a colander and set aside.

Place a big pan on medium heat, add palm oil and heat for about 3 minutes (Do not bleach oil) add the reserved chopped onions and Sautee till translucent
Add pepper mix, locust beans and stir to combine. Bring to boil for 5 minutes.
Add the egusi paste in bits to pepper, reduce the heat, do not stir and cover the pot with a lid. Cook for another 10 minutes.


Remove the lid, and gently stir the soup. The egusi would be lumpy at this point, use the back of a ladle to break the lumps it into desired size/texture
Add smoked turkey, ground crayfish and crayfish, beef stock (if using) and stir to combine. Add bouillon cubes, taste and adjust accordingly. I didn’t add salt to this soup as the smoked turkey and mackerel already contained salt. Continue to cook for another 10 minutes, check at intervals and stir to avoid burning if need be
Add shredded smoked mackerel and gently stir into the soup. Add chopped spinach, stir to combine and cook for another 3 to 5 minutes. Take it off the heat, allow to cool for about 10 minutes before serving
